Rasberry PI:
Rasberry from fruit name and PI from python
The popular credit size computer which not only famous for its size but also for performance.
It can be almost used as a functional computer by running several versions of linux operatig systems.

History :
Broadcom(a company that manfacture smartphones joined hands with university of Cambridge to cofound the RPI foundation.
First it was designed to make kids learn programming and to make access of functional computers to the citizens of 3rd world countries 


Raspberry Pi 3 - Model B Technical Specification
Broadcom BCM2387 chipset 
1.2GHz Quad-Core ARM Cortex-A53
802.11 bgn Wireless LAN and Bluetooth 4.1 (Bluetooth Classic and LE)
1GB RAM
64 Bit CPU
4 x USB ports
4 pole Stereo output and Composite video port
Full size HDMI
10/100 BaseT Ethernet socketbr
CSI camera port for connecting the Raspberry Pi camera
DSI display port for connecting the Raspberry Pi touch screen display
Micro SD port for loading your operating system and storing data
Micro USB power source

The specific sensors and components here were chosen after considering a number of factors:

1.Availability
2.Cost
3.Linux/Python support
4.Reliability
5.Accuracy
6.Ease of use

and if we choose different components, we will probably need to also find (or write) a Python library that works with them.


On the Software Side 
The Oracle Raspberry Pi Weather Station software. Clone the GitHub repository by opening a Terminal window and type
git clone https://github.com/RaspberryPiFoundation/weather-station

The BME280 Python library:
sudo pip3 install RPi.bme280

The MariaDB database server software:
sudo apt-get install -y mariadb-server mariadb-client libmariadbclient-dev
sudo pip3 install mysqlclient

Now for measuring Humidity, temperature and pressure :

The BME280 sensor is a digital sensor that can measure temperature, humidity, and atmospheric pressure.
One thing to check is that the I2C address is correct: for the Adafruit models it is 0x77  
but other versions can have different addresses (0x76 is a common alternative).

Wiring up the sensor
Connect up the sensor to your Pi


Create a new Python file, save it as /home/pi/weather-station/bme280_sensor.py, and add the code to it:
Sample Code :-

import bme280
import smbus2
from time import sleep

port = 1
address = 0x77 # Adafruit BME280 address. Other BME280s may be different
bus = smbus2.SMBus(port)

bme280.load_calibration_params(bus,address)

while True:
    bme280_data = bme280.sample(bus,address)
    humidity  = bme280_data.humidity
    pressure  = bme280_data.pressure
    ambient_temperature = bme280_data.temperature
    print(humidity, pressure, ambient_temperature)
    sleep(1)


Ground temperature
The BME280 will report the air temperature, but this can be significantly warmer than the ground, particularly if it is frosty. 
A thermal probe stuck into the soil is a useful supplemental temperature measurement and can be used to indicate the presence of 
ice/frost in winter. The Dallas DS18B20 temperature sensor comes in many forms including a waterproof thermal probe version, and this 
is the sensor used on the Oracle Raspberry Pi Weather Station.

